there is enough that's worth us talking
about. So it's it's build and a few
extra pieces around it as we've had some
good announcements that have come out
recently as well um sort of just before
and a couple just after with that as
well. Um thanks to our sponsor for
tonight Mantle um I work for Mantle so
helpful from that side of things as
well.
Thank you.
We're a um a systems integrator. We work
across AI data um cloud and so and also
with GitHub. So hence the the reasons
for the sponsorship. A couple of
housekeeping notices for those that
haven't been here and heard this, but as
as the comment always goes on the
airplanes, it doesn't matter if you fly
with us frequently. Please pay
attention. Um so we're we're here in
this room here with the the big purple
dot. Um the coffee machines you probably
found out by the pizza and and around
the corner here as well. First aid, fire
extinguishers in behind reception if we
need them. Bathrooms are out either side
of the lifts out through here. If you go
out, please make sure you take a pass
with you when you go out. They're just
hanging on the door here. Otherwise, you
will look very, very sad and longingly
through the window as you try and get
back in and find that you can't uh from
there. And then just please return the
pass to the door handle when you come
back in. If there is an emergency, we
will go out through the fire exits which
are either side of the lift by the
toilets there as well. Um, just follow
DSR and and Izzy and they'll show us
where to go. Basically, we head on out
down the bottom and away from the
building from there. One last piece of
housekeeping is when you do depart, if
you do have to disappear before we
finish up, please return your plastic
badge to reception. Um, we don't
actually need to sign out. So you can
take that off there, but you will need a
QR code to get out of the gates at the
bottom as well. The QR code you use to
get in will work you to get out. If you
deleted that email, you feel free to
take a picture of this one here. Any QR
code will let you out. Please do not use
the emergency button unless it is an
emergency. It has happened before and
Microsoft were not terribly impressed to
have everybody turn up from there.
Uh we are a community-led user group as
well and what that means is we're keen
to have feedback and get ideas from you
about topics that you would like to see
covered when it comes to GitHub. So
couple of links here with the QR codes.
The first one is to the GitHub um
organization that we've set up for the
user group. And specifically inside
GitHub, we've got a discussions board
where um we're keen to have you put your
ideas of topics that you'd like to see
covered. And if you're prepared and
brave enough to put your hand up to talk
through something that you've been doing
or to present on a topic, we'd love to
have you do that. If you're not
confident about standing up to present,
more than happy to work with you and
help you through that process, but it's
not about polish delivery. It's about
sharing the knowledge that you've
learned so that other people can learn
from that knowledge as well. So, feel
free to fill in those and and also vote
for any of the um topics that you'd like
to see with the thumbs up emoji on
there. again helps us to to plan out
what topics we can look at as we go
forward.
For those of you who haven't met me, my
name is Jerome. As I mentioned, I work
at Mantle as a principal consultant. I'm
also an Microsoft MVP in DevOps from my
work with GitHub. Uh if you want to
contact me and keep in touch, there's a
link to my GitHub profile. From there,
you'll find links to my blog, my
LinkedIn, and places that you can track
me down uh in terms of that. and along
with a random set of code of little bits
and pieces that I've written over
various points in time from there and
we'll we'll see a couple of those
on the side as we kind of work through
today.
So, as we start looking at what's been
going on, one of the key ones key
announcements that's come just after
build uh from there that I wanted to
highlight, we'll jump in. I'm not going
to sit here with a lot of slides today.
Most of it's actually going to be demo
and showing you what's been what's going
on. But one of the new ones is the code
quality um toolkit is going to go
generally available on July 20th. Has
anybody had a chance to play with it
yet?
No. So it's been in preview for a little
while. One thing to be aware of is if
you have turned it on in preview on your
private repositories and you don't want
to keep paying for it when it does
launch in July 20, you do need to go in
and turn it off in advance. Uh so it is
an extra license um in the same way that
advanced security is an extra license.
Um and what code quality is there for is
to help with the maintainability of your
code. So what it will do is in the same
way that code um will can run across
your codebase and surface issues and and
challenges, code quality will go and do
that for you as well. And as I said,
we're going to jump into demos more than
anything else. The way that we enable
it, it's only currently available at an
organization or an enterprise level. So,
you can't enable it on repos that you
have on your own personal uh under your
own personal GitHub username, but you
can do it if you've got an organization
uh from there. Really easy to to enable.
We go into settings. We go down to code
quality and click the enable code
quality button. That will just step it
through and kick that off from there. If
you want to do it at the organization
level, we can go to our organization
again, settings, down to code quality,
and I've got a toggle button here where
I can turn it on for all of my
repositories across the organization.
Again, be aware that it's it's a it's a
usage based license. So, you will be
from the 20th of July charged $10 US per
active committer across your
repositories that have it enabled. So
that's a decision to appeal. What does
it look like from there? Well, sadly my
AI generated code is pretty good. So I
can't show you any of the reports about
what it looks like if it doesn't work.
But what we've got here in our security
and quality um area is a collection of
findings that about the the code. How
maintainable is it? So is it is it
consistent? Is it are we repeating
ourselves with functions left, right,
and center from there? In terms of
reliability, are there things and
patterns in the code that might lead to
reliability issues? And then what it can
also do uh depending on your settings is
sort of take those findings, feed them
through an LLM and come up with
recommendations as well from there. And
so you can drill into those. If if I had
a a code base that wasn't as good, I'd
drill into that and show you what that
all looked like. But I don't have one of
those. I'm sorry for that.
Too good.
Too too good too good on my tiny wee
little coding things that that are going
on here. So that's code quality as I
said going generally available in July.
Now it wouldn't be have been build and
it wouldn't be a GitHub um discussion if
we didn't talk about co-pilot. Who here
uses or has used co-pilot?
What who uses it in VS Code or their or
Jet Brains or what or their IDE
primarily? Yeah. Who uses the CLI?
CL people. Yeah. Um who's who's actually
taken the plunge and jumped into the
GitHub app?
Yeah. So, a few people. So, I talked
about this um la the last one our last
user group. I got the permission to show
this off when it was still uh in private
preview just before it hit the technical
preview. It's now gone generally
available. So this is the new GitHub app
is available for everybody. Um you can
download it at well sorry GitHub copilot
app. Got to get the name right because
they kept changing it.
So this this app here is GitHub
reimagining how would we interact with
GitHub if we weren't doing it via the
browser. So the intent of this app is to
be an app that allows you to do most of
the work that you would need to do
inside GitHub without having to go and
run in the browser from there. And so
when we come in, we open up here to our
home from there. And because they want
you to consume more tokens, they put you
straight into a prompt because most of
the time these days we're jumping in,
we're getting stuck into a prompt. We
pick here our repo that we're going to
start working from.
Am I going to use a local repository? Am
I going to run this up in the cloud? So,
I'm just going to interact and let all
the co-pilot work happen in the cloud or
am I going to create a new work tree?
Now, is who is anyone familiar with git
work trees?
Thanks, a couple couple of people.
So, a git work tree is like taking a
copy of your repository, putting it in
another folder, but you can check it out
in a different branch, but you can do so
without having to pull down all of the
get metadata. So, it's just a
lightweight clone of one of your
branches that operates in a different
part of your file system. The advantage
of having the work trees is it allows
you to be working on two or three
different features at the same time in
completely independent um work trees and
independent parts of your codebase.
You're not stomping over yourself by ma
by making modifications to the same file
in the same location and then trying to
have to unpick that and go what am I
committing in what part on the way past.
We can keep each of those trees
isolated. Then when we're finished, when
we clean up our session here in GitHub,
it will go and remove that work tree for
us. Uh, and we've tidied ourselves up on
the way past. So, particularly now that
we're doing most of the work through
coding agents, being able to spin up two
or three sessions operating
independently is really important.
Question
is git feature or GitHub feature?
It's a git feature. So, work trees are a
git feature. Anybody can use them.
Anybody can create them with the git
command line. the app is just making it
really easy to do that by managing it
all for you in the background. So I
frequently use a um a guey for git that
has full workree support as well and it
integrates with these work trees as
well. Another question.
Sorry. GitHub.
Yeah. So, so Git is so we we brief
history we in the old days we version
things by putting V1, V2, V3 on the end
and we stacked up a whole whole group of
files. Somebody decided that wasn't
really a good idea. It was better to
keep the same names but how did you
track that? And we ended up with um
CVS I think was the first one. So there
was the fir the first version control
system and it would track all of this
for you but it wasn't particularly
scalable. And so then we ended up with
subversion which was a significant
improvement on CVS.
Well as I say we were stuck out of TVS
and everything on the on that side of
it. I'm talking about the ones that made
themselves more popular. Um ouch.
Um and so we we ended up with
subversion. Subversion was great, but
then the cloud was and and the internet.
And what the aim was there for is to
have a distributed system where
everybody could work from local copies
and that it would take care of a lot of
the the struggle of merging those
together in there. And Lana Stores, the
creator of Linux, worked up in an
afternoon git and we now have that as
the most common um doesn't know.
Does anyone know?
Yeah. And so, GitHub is built upon Git.
So, Git is an open source platform for
manager an open source tooling for
managing your code. GitHub sits a top
that introduced things like the pull
request workflow and everything like
that. uh but it uses get underneath from
there which is open anybody can use that
but it provides a lot more of the
management and that central place of
control to go where is all of our code
going to live in a central place. So
kind of explain those layers through
there
one one
a work tree versus a fork.
Yeah. So a fork is a whole. So the
question is what the difference between
a work tree and a fork? In a sense a
work tree is a much more lightweight.
It's not really no. So
a fork a fork is taking a full copy of
the repository. Um and so this comes
back to the distributed nature of of how
this works. If I pull it get repo
locally, I'm technically forking that
repo because I'm making my own copy that
I can now work and that can be my master
uh from there. But what we tend to do is
we go, well, the one in GitHub is the
one that we use as our master. We're
going to push our commits back to that
one or in the git um the GitHub flow,
here's my open source package. I fork
that into my own uh account so that I
can make edits because I don't have edit
rights there. And then I'll raise a pull
request back onto the original source
for them to incorporate my changes back
into the upstream. And then I will
synchronize my copy with what was what
was put up into there a work tree. So
within a git repo then we create
branches. That was the big revelation
that came with Git is it's very cheap to
create a new branch and a branch allows
us to keep that that code change that
we're making in an independent um tree
of work that we can then move between
these branches really easily. Store some
work in this one. Commit all of that and
then we change to another feature. We
work in that one. Then we can go back to
the previous feature and the two aren't
interacting with each other. A work tree
just takes those two branches and puts
them in two separate file system
locations so that we can see the files
at the same time rather than having to
switch back and forth between them.
And so that therefore gives you much
more power and flexibility because now I
can have two or three copies of my code
without having to pull down the whole
repository each time. And so once you've
if you've got an open source package or
or anything that's been going for a long
time, all of the history so when you
when you copy a git repo locally, it
pulls down every single file change that
has occurred in that repo since it
started. And so that can grow quite big
very very quickly. So we don't want to
have to duplicate that every time when
we know we've got it already locally.
The work tree just allows us to take
only the the working folder that we're
in without having to pull all of that
metadata or all that history and
duplicate that.
Hello.
Yeah.
Yes. Uh I am familiar with git branch
but not work tree and uh I still used to
use git branch to manage our subsystem.
Yep.
And p from man main man branch and push.
Yes. to manate from my subsystem.
Yeah.
But why we use this this feature
the work trees? So the question the
question for those online is around um
used to using branches for the features.
Why would you then use work trees? The
reason is so you can work on two
features at the same time by having the
same so having the code in two paths on
your file system.
And so therefore I can be so I can start
with and maybe a a way of explaining
this is if I jump into if you gave the
same feature brief to two different
development team.
So that's that would be because they're
on independent machines. They're going
to probably start from their own forks
and run their different branches and
then you'll bring those together. This
is more if I'm working on things locally
what I want the ability to do. And so if
I go into here and I have a look at
here. So what I can do is
in this in this um folder here. So I was
doing some some work with co-pilot about
um integrating. I've got home assistant
at home and I've got a Zen control
lighting system for my office because
I'm a geek and I wanted the two of them
to talk together so I could automate my
lights
from there. haven't finished off doing
all of that, but I've built the
integration. And so I needed to work on
a couple of different features at the
same time. So with work trees, what I
can do is I can go into one folder here.
And so this has got the details that I
was working on. And if I go into this
one, it's a it's a it's the same repo,
but I can now be working on a different
feature in this branch. So each of them
is a separate branches, but they're now
both visible on my file system at the
same time. So instead of in git having
to check out my branches to to go back
and forth, I can just go to a different
folder and see what's going on in that
folder. What that therefore means is I
can now give my coding agent access to
one folder or the other folder and ask
it to only work in that folder. And
therefore I can be have I can have my
coding agent working on two independent
features at the same time. they can
change the same files and they're not
going to get in each other's way because
each is working on its own copy of the
code, but I'm not having to duplicate
all of that meta data in the background.
Maybe what we I think it's on one of the
topics that we've got listed um a
discussion around get work trees and and
how maybe some of the internals of Git
and how work trees work. I think that
might be a good topic for another
another evening uh to talk through
because then we can draw it up and
diagram it and explain it a little bit
more clarity for those who are
interested to understand it a bit
deeper. The key thing though in terms of
by using the new work tree, it allows us
to start from a fresh branch uh and
allow allows us to kick a couple of of
coding agents off at the same time
without them interacting with each
other.
You'll see here I've got my up next from
here and these are my pull requests that
are sitting open for me to to work with.
And so I can jump in and I can review a
pull request.
And what this is going to do is so this
has created me the a work tree locally
because I've got it cloned but I don't
want to maybe interrupt the work that I
have been doing. So in this here, it's
done that and it tells me what's gone on
and I could just start here with a
conversation to update something if I
needed to know more information. So in
this case, this one's just a dependabot.
But let's say this was a major version
bump, not just a a minor version bump. I
can now start asking Copilot to give me
feedback on what's changed. What might I
need to change inside my code in order
to take advantage of the major version
that's changed? We can work on that.
push that into the pull request and then
we can do it. I can review my pull
request here. So, it's sitting waiting
for me to review it. So, I can say,
"Yep, I'm happy with this. I'm going to
approve this pull request."
Sorry. I think um having issues seeing
your screen
uh they're having issues with
Oh, we hang on.
Is that because we're
exit spotlight? Is that
No.
No. Oh, man. Hang on.
Uh, sorry. Sorry about that. Online, we
we
Yeah, hang on.
We'll have the Microsofties get on to
Teams and and Well,
I I'm not sure we'll fix Teams, but
we'll hopefully fix this problem.
Just asking that question that code
review or code um
the first one that you're talking about.
Yeah. You said it's different billing
compared to
Yes, correct. So, so code the code
quality
um has two parts to the licensing for
it. So, one part is a per user license
for active committers and repositories
in your organization
that have code quality enabled. So what
that means is any you will pay for or a
license for anyone who's committed to
that to any of your repositories in your
organization
in the last 90 days um in order to um
who's committed in there and they'll be
charged a license of $10. If you use any
of the AI functionality they will
consume the AI credits in the same way
that um actions workflows uh so the
agenda workflows will do so as well and
so forth from it. shares the credit.
So sh so it shares the well so now with
the new AI credit um configuration and
so that's one of the big changes that's
come out that that's been talked about a
lot is there's basically now a pool of
credits that are available individuals
have uh limits on them and you can set
limits for other things like these
workflows and they'll consume out of the
shared pool initially. Uh we can share
cool connected device
hopefully. Does that does that give you
the sharing out online? We can see it
now online. Fantastic. Sorry about that
online everybody. Thank you for
for pointing that out uh in terms of
that. So um yes so there there is a
component there where it will draw from
those those that share pool or go into
charge if if you go over your allocation
uh your included allocation.
So they show seat charge.
So you got to pay for two seats they
share credits. Okay.
Yeah. or so you pay for the seat of of
whoever is committing and then if you're
using the AI functionality then you're
paying for the tokens that are being
consumed in the background. Um, so as as
I was showing for for those uh online,
this is the homepage of the GitHub
copilot app. We can drill into a pull
request to review it from here. I have a
look. This one here is going up to a new
major version. So I'm not going to spend
the time going through that while we
talk about it here. Uh, but in this one
here where it's just a minor version.
Yep, I'm happy. I'm going to submit my
review, approve that. I could leave a
comment if I wanted to.
that's now submitted. And this should
refresh for me shortly um in order to
allow me to
um to merge that as well. So we will
give that a moment. Um it may be a
connectivity issue from there.
We'll talk about automations and so
forth um as well when we get to the CLI,
but there's an automations pane here.
Basically, welcome to Chrome. Um,
Microsoft is reinventing Chron for us
and adding it into all the different
applications. What this allows us to do
is to set up here regular triggers of
when we might want to run something
agentic uh from here. So, do we want to
there's some examples here daily run
through all the issues um and kick those
off. The key thing is if I've got my app
open sitting there, it can go and and
run it. I don't have to think about it.
I just get to my answer at the end of it
from there.
We've got our search. We can get in,
find out what's going on. And then we've
got our sessions. And so this here is
grouping it into our different
repositories that we're dealing with. I
have some quick chats. So if I just want
a quick conversation to ask about a few
things, I'm not working on a codebase. I
can start one up. Otherwise, I can start
up in an existing repo. when I create a
new session again I'm seeing the same
configurations I saw on that front page
from here as well one of the new things
that comes from here as well and if I go
to let's jump down to this one here so I
don't embarrass myself well don't
embarrass myself as much with anything
you might notice there's a new button in
the corner here as well is so if I click
this button here
and of course because I haven't done it
before
can you explain to me what this
repository does.
Now I can actually do my work without
having to spend all the time typing
away. So now I can actually turn into
what I was telling my kids I was doing
is I need to work out a way of just
being able to talk to my computer. And
now I can talk to my computer and I can
start building things and I don't have
to think about how do I actually type
this out? Uh and away it goes from
there. So that's that's going to kick
off as we see it created a new work tree
so that it's by default working in a
whole new environment not working over
anything I've got there and it's going
to go away and work out what it needs to
do. So, we'll let that run. But
basically, um, always love the names
that it looks to come up with for the
work trees.
And this was recently readded back into
the S code as well.
The the voice
Yeah, they took it away and then last
week came back.
Yeah. And so the voice voice has been
added back in terms of there. And so
there we go. There's a there's our
description in terms of what's going on
uh from that. So So that's the the new
GitHub app. Sorry. Yeah. Question. So I
just noticed that skill loader being
there.
Yes.
So how it's working like is there a
place that you add skills customer
skills or like how does that work?
So the the skills that you that you load
are either repository based as they
would normally be or you can have them
centralized. It also leverages the same
plugins that the that the CLI uses as
well. And so you can install plugins
into the CLI. Um they will they'll make
themselves available here. Uh and so I
can go through and turn them on and off.
As you can see, I've got a collection
here. I probably need to go through and
tune them out a little bit, but it's all
of the how do I start playing with a lot
of the new functionality. Now, I'm
paying per token. How do I try and
reduce the number of tokens that I'm
using? And GitHub have been making a lot
of changes to the CLI and uh the copilot
app to improve the token usage to reduce
it for you automatically. So, there's
been some improvements through the month
on the way past as well. Did you have
another still have another question or
Yeah.
response from that.
So does it the question is does it
connect to GitHub actions? it will
connect to get GitHub actions in the
sense that if I go in here and I don't
know why it's not showing up when I'm
looking at what my PR so I can load up
my PR here and I can have a look and see
my my CI checks that are running from
there. Um and then you can obviously mod
excuse me modify your actions and things
like that as you would through anything
there. Um, you can also just go and open
it in your editor of choice terminal and
so forth as well. So if you do want to
get into the code, the co-pilot app is
hiding the code from you because it's
moving into the we're all just doing
this by device. So therefore, why would
I look at the code? But the code is is
able to be got to relatively quickly if
you want to from there also
uh in terms of that.
Okay. So that is the co-pilot app.
Yes.
I have only had it in there for a short
period of time and so I haven't really
pushed it hard to see how good it is.
I've liked what I've been seeing on the
way through recently some of the things
I've been doing in term if so for those
that aren't familiar with the ponytail
skill. It was a skill that kind of got
released relatively recently and made
the rounds from there. The whole theory
of it is it here is your senior
developer. He turns up, he looks at your
50 lines, he grunts and replaces it with
one one line that works perfectly first
time.
Completely unreadable.
Completely unreadable 100% but it works
perfectly first time because one line
and all of that. The whole point of the
skill is to try and encourage the Lol to
not repeat itself as frequently to not
decide I want to pull in all of npm in
order to do hello world. Um but to
actually go is it in the standard
library use that is it in an existing
package that's imported use that rather
than preferring another package and
things like that. So I'm not a deep
developer. I haven't really pushed it to
see how well it does from there. Same
with the caveman. I've added that back
in or added that in recently. Haven't
played a lot to see how much of a
difference it's making. But I'll show
you something in a moment that might
help you to understand some of those
things. Actually, there's another
extension maybe I'll I'll do,
but I'm conscious we don't want to go
too long. So, no one wants to talk about
the profiler SDK at some point tonight.
integrating
it into
um just before I jump on were there any
questions online that we s that anybody
can see?
No.
Okay. So for those that that don't like
gooies,
co-pilot has a tuy a terminal interface.
So here I am in my terminal and I will
Yes. remember this one from there. So,
welcome to the Copilot CLI.
Don't get me started on the fact that
it's written in in Node, but anyway,
this we have web browsers for our web
browsers these days. So, for those that
have a preference over a CLI, this is
the the way to get in. And so, this has
been around for a little while. It's
it's been released for a while also. Um,
however, there's been some updates
recently on the way through and I meant
to talk about these first couple of
things. These all these first couple of
things I'm going to talk about that have
gone GA and these features are available
also in the copilot app. So, if you've
not got used to using slash commands,
start thinking through and looking at
these. This is a whole lot of
functionality that comes out of the box
in order for you to to help you do
things. So one of them that they've
released recently has gone generally
available is this chronicle tool. So in
terms of asking that question about
ponytail is it making difference any
difference and things like that
chronicle can potentially help you from
there. So one of the things it will do
for you is if you run it in standup mode
it will look through all of your
co-pilot sessions for the past 24 hours
and present you a nice concise summary
that you can then for in your standup
say this is what I did today.
Oh
sh but yes it's so now we're even
automating our standouts. Um we've got
the bit we can search through to find
something in in the history that we've
got and then we've got these these last
these three here to give you some tips
and tricks on how to use Copilot more
effectively. So how can I improve the
way that I'm using copilot? How can I
improve my cost aspect? And so if I run
improve here, it will take a couple of
minutes to kick off um from there. But
that's going to run through and that's
going to look at my session history and
it's going to come back with a this is
the qu this is what I would recommend
for you in terms of the way that you do
things and it's going to go and and
throw a collection of errors mostly
because I think it's it's to do with um
how frequently oh no it's um but
multiple sequence SQL statements anyway
um okay simple for for the repo simple
it's it's based on what work I have been
doing in what places for various things.
So as it runs through basically one of
the when I ran this earlier it's its
main complaint was I was spending too
much time using um GBT 53 codeex and I
should it's like use simpler models for
simpler tasks. I'm like well I've left
it on auto mode so that's not my fault
that's your fault. um from there. So,
it's it's a useful way of kind of
getting an idea of what's been going on
and ways that you can improve uh the use
of your co-pilot side of things.
That is that is also available in VS
Code.
Was was Yeah. So, a lot of these will be
in VS Code as well. There's something
else I'll show potentially show in VS
Code now that you mentioned it. While
while we're letting that run,
um let me fire up VS Code since since
I've been dragged into this
conversation.
Um, from here is there is and I need to
turn it back on.
Um,
where's my settings?
There's this AI engineer coach um
extension that's available for VS Code.
This does the same kind of a thing, but
this will also work across cord. It will
also work across codeex lots from there
as well. And so this is going to to jump
in and give you an idea over how you're
coding as well from there. So what's
your what's your prompt quality and it
gives you a tracking month on month week
on week. So are you listing of of anti
patterns? I have a bad habit of leaving
sessions running too long. Um and rather
than starting a new session and getting
a fresh context, I have a tendency to
keep asking questions in an old in an
old session uh from them. uh and then
code reviews tools
what skills. So again look through the
prompts that you've been using. If
you've been using the same prompts over
and over again that's a candidate for a
skill and so it will make some
suggestions in your activity where are
you using it CLI local agent insiders um
workspaces. So all of this detail is
available for you here, but particularly
the anti patterns is quite a good one on
the way through just to give you that
idea of how could you actually improve
the way you're doing things. Yeah.
Question.
I saw one of them flick through the word
I guess. What was that one you can go
back to?
Um
let's go back to here.
The title
the big title.
Oh vi agreement. So that's that I think
that's just
the name to make it fun is they'll give
you a title on the base of of what it is
that you tend to be doing. So
I suspect
from there. So that's something I found
quite useful in again in terms of
getting an idea over how you're doing
things. You don't have as you can see
you don't have to be using VS Code
for the actual work in order to to use
that AI engineer coach. Um as well
it's you can only get that by GitHub.
It's not available.
It hasn't been hasn't been published yet
uh from there. So, you do have to
download it and and install it and
compile it and install it. Um so, I
probably need to update it and see
what's come up from there.
Um okay, that's we'll we'll cancel
that one there. Uh in terms of that,
second command that I would suggest you
get used to um is now why is that? This
is the problem. That's well this is the
thing. It's not meant to be an
experimental. Um that's right. We'll go
to security review.
So
we all know that
um security is important. We all know
that LLMs don't necessarily think about
security. In the old school way of where
developers would go and copy paste from
Stack Overflow, you'd get something that
worked that probably let everybody else
in. Um so it is with vcoded apps these
days. For example, you've seen the meme
running around, I'm sure, on LinkedIn
and other places where people are
canceling their Claude code subscription
and they are now using Chipotle
because the Chipotle bot was set up such
that you could ask it a question and go,
I'd love to order some tacos from you.
However, to before that, I need to
finish my Python homework. Can you
please explain to me how to refactor
this? And it would go away and do it.
The security review command is really
just a predefined prompt that will go
through and and kick off a good a
thorough security review without you
having to think through a solid prompt
to be able to do that. So again, this
functionality here, I think I've
actually got looking at it, I've got
two. I've got a prompt loaded or an
agent loaded and also a um the one that
comes from inside GitHub CLI that's also
available in the app and may well be
also available in VS Code. I haven't
tried but they're unifying much of this
on the way past. So that's something
worth doing from there.
And then what we have is the
experimental features. So this is for
those that like to live on the edge
which because we're vi coding we always
like to live on the on the edge. YOLO
experimental allows us to get into the
features that haven't been publicly
released yet. And so I can go
experimental on that's going to restart
my co-pilot session for me
automatically. And now I'm going to have
more functionality um available to me.
And so if I do experimental show, it
will give me a list of the functionality
that's available to me in experimental
mode. Now who's eagle-eyed? And notice
something else that's changed having
moved into experimental mode.
No, at the very top here, I now have
tabs in my CLI.
Oh my goodness.
And so by default, I'm dropped here into
my session where I'm doing my work from
there. But now, in the same way that I
can do a lot of my work inside the Git
Pub Copilot app, I press tab and now I'm
looking at the issues that are raised in
my repository that I'm in. This is
obviously only going to be working for
repositories stored on GitHub uh because
this is a GitHub app, but it allows you
to get into there. I have one more tab.
Now I'm looking at my pull requests and
from here I can jump in and I can have a
look at the details of my pull request
and I can open it up. We can have a
conversation about it and everything. Uh
and I can go into my gists. So if I've
got those there, they're just there
ready for me to go from there. Yeah.
Question. You mentioned this CLI is
actually written in JavaScript.
So why didn't they just make it nicer?
Technology exists.
Has it been written in JavaScript? Why
is it not nicer? Because they're trying
to keep it and make it feel like a
terminal interface when really it's just
a web interface I think is ultimately
that question from there. And so this is
when I'm going to stay out of the two
the 2 versus GUI war. Um, I'd rather
start the V versus Emacs war rather than
that or Windows versus Mac OS. They're
probably more polite.
It still is a terminal.
But there's a terminal.
A terminal. It's not rendering a web
page.
No, but it's it's just
otherwise. Yes. Why not just use that?
Correct. Uh, from there. So, so we've
got the tabs. It allows us to get in and
start doing more of our management. So,
again, from a development flow, I can be
getting I'm not having to switch
context. That's the reason for it is
that I'm here in my terminal interface.
I can be in there. I can be doing things
and I don't have to think about
switching out to a browser to be able to
do things from there. Along with that is
it's obviously no I don't know why I'm
not seeing the rubber duck command.
Yeah,
it was and they tell us that it's that
it's GA is the rubber duck command. So
there is a rubber duck command that is
supposedly released
review
is a review agent. Um so there is a
rubber duck command that so what we got
for a time in the in in the old golden
days of premium request units where you
didn't have to think about tokens and
you could burn them to your heart's
content.
they introduced a function functionality
into the CLI primarily where if if you
were building a plan up and maybe
actually that's what I was that because
I need to be in plan mode first when I
think about it
um which is shift tab plan mode
maybe it's because I've not done any
work so far in here
I'm in I've moved to plan it's possibly
also because I don't haven't generated a
plan that I'm not seeing rubber
So they introduced this rubber duck mode
which if you were using to start with it
was if you were using an anthropic model
it would go and take your plan and feed
it to a an open AI model and ask it to
critique the plan. So the concept of a
rubber duck comes back comes from the
con the thought of if you take something
that you're trying to do and you explain
it to an an inanimate object or a child
that can work just as well but they
don't stand still long enough that
forces you to think more clearly about
what it is that you're doing. And so the
concept is to take one the plan from one
agent, feed it into another and get a
critique of the plan that comes back in
order to be able to uh from there
improve on the plan. And so that was an
automatic thing that would happen under
the premium request side of things. Now
that we're on tokenbased billing, that's
not an automatic thing, but it's
something that is available in both the
the the terminal and also the guey
theoretically. Um,
see if it's there in
um,
yeah, I've got it. So, I've got it here
in my CLI, my my gooey, my rubber duck
command. Um, so I don't know why
don't know why I don't have it in the
the terminal. Possibly because I haven't
got a plan or something in there. So, it
should be there.
Um we also have as we showed in um in
the other session. So if I go back to
here um if we now have voice mode in our
terminal interface as well. Can you
please tell me?
Oh, so what I need to do is I need to do
voice on
and it will go and find what voice
models are available. And I have
pre-downloaded it because it does take a
while to do that.
But what we should be able to do is turn
on voice capabilities. And now I can
speak to my terminal interface and have
it do things for both for both the CLI
and the GUI.
All of that voice processing is local.
So your voice is not being shipped off
to the cloud to be processed. It is
being processed on your machine. Part of
the reason it might take a little bit
longer. And so from here I can now go,
can you please explain to me this repo?
Oh, sorry, wrong wrong button. Can you
please explain to me this repo?
Can you please explain what this repo
does?
And away we go. So now I can do things
by voice in a terminal interface. Yeah.
Would you use Windows H to use voice
command of the local Windows?
I don't different.
What is Windows?
You can import voice
create your voice instantly. So
I do all my documents emails via voice
windows
and it'll type in any program that I've
ever potentially it would work. Um the
the main difference is that would be
Windows only. So as long as Windows is
recognizing it as an input field,
that should work from a Windows
perspective. This is now this is
crossplatform. So this works the same
way across Mac, Linux, Windows from
there. So again, you could probably use
dictation on a Mac to do the same kind
of a thing. There are multiple ways of
of achieving this.
Sorry, Windows.
Yeah. No, that's that's fine. Uh in
terms of that, we won't think any less
of you for that, David. Don't worry.
Can you see what model?
Yes.
So, there's there's there's three models
available currently. Um, one's an
English model, one's a Spanish model.
Uh, and I'm not quite sure what the the
middle model is as well, but you can
pick and choose and it will just
download that model for you locally and
run that. So, yeah.
You try Windows 8 to see if it works.
No, because I'm not on a Windows
machine,
so it won't work.
You're not running soft Windows.
No.
From there, um, we also have cron built
into the terminal inter interface. Now
we have an every command. So I can
schedule a recurring prompt, skill or
slash command to run on a on a period.
Something like this is where the either
to use every or the other one is to use
after.
And so this is where to say after two
hours because I know I'm going to be
working on this,
run me a security review,
for example, schedule. And so I can
remember to keep that set that in
advance so that it kicks off in advance
and or schedules it in advance so that I
don't have to think about coming back to
that
or to say after after oh sorry every
every two hours run it is is my other
option. So after is a one-time
trigger every is a a recurring trigger
from there. Um, in terms of my problem,
I mentioned that one of the
recommendations is I have a tendency to
keep my sessions going too long. Part of
that is I halfway through doing
something and I want something explained
to me a little bit more deeply
because I'm not a developer, but I
understand a lot of the concepts and
it'll come back with a suggestion and a
plan or something and say we should do
this and it's like is this really the
right thing? I want to dig in and
understand that a little bit more. And
so now we can ask
Carpilot to do something for us. What
this does is this creates fundamentally
a a new session for us. I'm not not I
think it forks the existing one. So from
a a claude perspective, if you're used
to code, there's a fork command in claw
code that will fork your current
session. The ask session will take what
you've got,
answer your question, but not add it to
your main session history.
So this is perfect for explaining out a
detail where you want to kind of go back
and forth a little bit with the model to
understand something particularly and
then come back to actually implement it
without polluting your context history
with all of that extra information on
the way past. Um the other way is you
can do it with a BTW for those that
don't understand that that means by the
way. Um again it's just a the same thing
as uh the ask two ways of getting into
it because you can't just have one from
there.
We talked earlier about work trees. Uh
there is an experimental support for
workree management inside the CLI. So
I'm in here I can run workree. It will
create that new work tree for me.
Relaunch copilot over the CLI over in
that new work tree. And now I can keep
running from there much the same way
that the guey is doing that. So that's
all managed for us from them. Um there
is the fork command which is slightly
different that takes it and moves it to
a whole new session whereas the ask
command is really about asking one
question that response is dropped from
history. So,
and then the last one and what the piece
that to a certain extent I've left it to
the end in part because it's actually
the piece that I like the most of the
functionality that's been introduced in
the CLI and I'm hoping this comes to the
GitHub app soon
is this sandbox command.
So with sandbox, so the the biggest risk
that we have for coding agents is the
fact that they can go wandering.
How many times have we heard of stories
where a coding agent has decided that it
needs to solve a problem and so it's
going to drop the production database
because it found a key that through two
or three hops could actually get at the
production database
because it found an environment file
somewhere. half the time it was in a
different location. And if you if you're
using coding agents, you'll see that
they'll typically ask, "Hey, can I read
files from outside of my um
environment?" And you've got control
over that. But there's only so much that
that can be done with this. With the new
sandbox functionality,
what it does is actually isolates the
command, the shell commands that get get
run inside a sandbox. So now your rm
minus rf slash. So for for those um Unix
people you'll understand that for
Windows people format C colon has much
the same effect we'll go and delete
everything for you that's the risk of
that is significantly reduced by running
that in a sandbox what we can so what we
can do in this here is sandbox what is
going to happen by default we turn it on
our MCP servers are going to run in
sandbox any language servers are going
to run in that sandbox so again this
helps with the risk of I'm pulling in
extra packages and do I actually trust
what those packages are doing? Because
what I can also do in addition to that I
can specify exactly what file system
paths I can grant access to by default.
Do I include the working directory?
Probably. But now there's no way it can
read anywhere else unless I explicitly
allow it on the way through. And I can
control my network access now. So I can
say no, these commands should not have
external access
because what I'm running in my sandbox
is code that shouldn't be going out and
doing anything. So therefore, don't even
allow it out onto the the out the local
network or out onto the internet. And if
I know there are some specific hosts
that I want, I can a host and I can
specify specific hosts. So again, this
is new functionality. It's experimental
from there, but this is giving us a
whole lot more control over the
isolation that we get here. Now, there
are some, if you look at the
documentation, the way that it's doing
these things, there are some limitations
from a macOS side of things. The
networking can't be isolated with the
default tooling that comes inside
MacOss. Uh, from there, it is within
Windows. On Windows, I believe it's
using the new Microsoft execution
containers to run this. I wonder if they
will eventually move to the Apple
container system for on on the Mac side
of things potentially. But again, what
we're just what we're starting to see
here is the ability to now improve the
security of our agents that are coding
agents that are running on our on our
laptops.
How well does it play with devdev
containers?
I have no idea.
Haven't tried that
for a future. though but future use case
we and so that again this is part of it
coupling this with dev containers and so
forth from there
um is technology that does allow us to
to get some of this capability from
there so that's a high level um and
relatively quick introduction to the
changes that have come to the terminal
um for co-pilot CI um any other
questions on those before I hand over to
Nothing. Uh, nothing online.
No. Perfect.
So, thank you very much. And is going to
talk on the co-pilot yesterday.
Hello everyone.
This is work.
I hope you guys can hear me otherwise.
Um
my name is Tan and I work for I'm one of
the co organizers of this user group as
well as net and Azure group as well. So
we do these monthly events. Um come join
us. Um so when I decided to have a give
a talk about um Microsoft build there
was multiple sessions that I was
interested in. Instead of going one by
one, I download all the
presentation files from the uh GitHub
and I give all of those into uh cover
and cover creates me this uh
that I'm going to go through. So some of
it can be hallucinated and it is
recorded. So
did you say co-work or co-pilot?
Coverwork. I said co-work.
So apparent it was cloud core work
before which I don't use cloud because I
use copilot uh github copilot mostly I
use um and Microsoft has offering called
co-work right now on co-pilot
area so it's pretty powerful uh
initially it was just 4.8 and another uh
entropic model but now we have GPT 5.5
as well um I use it daily and I was you
know hey let's an experiment. So,
normally last
Thursday and Friday I talk about uh some
of the sessions uh which Jerome already
talked about. So, I'm not going to touch
that uh but I can show a couple of
slides. So
in
the CLA talk they did they talk about
275 million commits a week um with
agentic uh ways people are committing
right now and this is across 4.3 million
AI related repositories but there was
another number in another talk um that
was saying 40% of the repositories that
is agentic is at risk and the reason is
not because AI cannot code or AI cannot
you know request the problem was the
context so when I give this slides all
together copilot
coorg create me this uh story line so
German already talk about CLI I'm going
to talk about SDK copilot SDK which give
you ability to access co-pilot harness
with your own uh either GitHub token or
with your own keys and there was couple
of other sessions about uh agent harness
and close and there was u Microsoft IQ
platform uh maybe we can talk about that
today a bit and there's also there was a
talk about founding
when I asked about these five sessions
cover copiloted However, hallucinated
this story line form
you don't use copilot SDK for deploying
things actually but it was talking about
that um so
so this is original slides that I use um
this is life cycle and these are the
screenshots that talk about um
but I want to go through their favorite
SL comments already talk about most of
But I want to talk about fleet mode and
new uh slash uh new and slashfleet.
Slashfleet give you uh sub aents on a
task. So when you create a when you ask
copilot to do something if it can be
parallelized it creates sub aents and
work on those in parallel and you can
use slashtask command to see those what
what's happening in each task and then
um you can parallelize your each agent's
work and slash new is another
um command a bring
which by default you would say oh it's
going create a new session instead of
that it turn your CLA into session
manager. Uh the story behind is
copilot team get the feedback of when
you are working on multiple sessions
people start creating um multiple
terminal UIs and write copilot yolo all
of them because we only do once but what
they want to avoid is creating multiple
terminals. So you can do now in a
existing session just do new it's going
to create a new sessions and you can use
sessions to manage and switch between
sessions to use only single CLI or
terminal UI to go between sessions. So
that was quite interesting how others
I'm going to switch. This is the new UI.
There's a bit a bit of improvements on
uh VS code everywhere. Actually they
like when you guys saw Jerome open the
VS code and there was already update
button which probably update like a
couple of hours ago but they do like
three four updates a day maybe less
sometimes. Um and
yeah that was my take on uh CLA talk and
I'm going to talk about um GitHub cop
who is a developer here I can see hands
have you guys ever need to
write your own version of copilot or
like try to create a
access what copilot does with your
prompts as a product.
I think copilot SDK is kind of answer
for that. I don't know who is exactly
the customer for copilot SDK. Um but
anyone who wants to build a harness but
doesn't want to build a harness. Yeah,
that yeah kind of so copilot SDK give
you ability to create sessions uh you
know whatever you can do in with copilot
CLI VS code copilot gith copilot and
whatever you see on the cloud agent it
allow you to do those programmatically
with multiple languages and originally
you would expect oh okay they're going
to bring SDK and their first product but
they
have the harness since copilot cloud
agent I don't know if you guys use
GitHub UI to create some agents to work
on things that's where it come from
and they use the same harness for GitHub
copilot CLA as well then now they like
okay we are reusing this multiple place
let's create this um SDK
um so people who needs programmatical
access to co-al harness can use
I'm not sure if they are using it on
uh VS code yet. I think they they are
moving there or they are about to move.
We have some picture about it. So this
is very new. Um I remember when they
first announced it was around December.
I was interested in using it but I
couldn't use because it was very new and
um a lot of features wasn't there yet.
Since then they have 66 contributors
around the profile SDK and they close
around 450 issues and uh they merge
around 500 plus broadcast. So since the
beginning they have all these
improvements session management
permissions skills tools hoops MCP um
one of the important things is they
bring bring your own key or custom
providers support right now uh open
telemetry is something very uh people
were looking for and what you can do
actually with copilot I'm going to bring
a topic to aspire so aspire has a
dashboard that you can just start with
single command and you can hook your
copilot
GitHub copilot or your co-pilot
application and you can see what's
happening under the hood you know what
agents are what tools are happening and
with open telemetry there's a lot of
improvement about um what's the word or
AI related logging uh you can see like
step by step very nice visual visuals
they have that done
um
so
these are all the environments you can
use for file SDK
the applications that you develop it but
their um selling point is you bring your
either GitHub authentication or you
bring your own key or bring your own
model so you can
implement uh moto services with it if
you have a requirements or if you're an
architect working for a banks or you
know very tight companies with security
you know on your back all the time. You
can have private vets and air gap cloud.
So they are bringing all those
requirements and
support. What I want to talk about is
actually this slide. So with GitHub
copilot SDK initially it was net and pi
python as I remember and they bring
typescript and go very fast as as far as
I know and they are bringing java and
rust support already or about to come
and these are all the um
environments is being used. Microsoft
does something really well. I heard that
stealmer was the original whoever told
me that maybe someone told me dog
fooding. So they are
using their own products full a lot
aspire copilot SDK GitHub you know
everything net and they are pretty good
at that they they are huge and they
improved it with that way and thinking
about how many people use Visual Studio
and VS code itself just amazing
um
execution model is something they start
talking with the I think on all
environment about GitHub copilot but
from the SDK perspective you have direct
execution model which means your
copilot
that's
managed by your SDK or your C# code can
do anything or you can limit the tools
and you can also include a human in the
loop kind of approach but with what
Jerome present earlier there is a
container per session kind of approach
as well so for each session that your co
copilot create
your your app create with copilot SDK
can be containerized itself in it so
that means it's very restricted and that
can be really expensive from the
resource part. So because of that you
can go like OS manage sandboxes. So in
the session BR key 206 if you go watch
it they do a lot of nice presentations
you will see in this section they talk
about three execution model actually. So
open and guarded ones the first two was
you know combined for some reason were
separated
team.
So
one thing come out from build was
MXC is it
marks execution.
So
Jerome had a nice sentence about this um
nin set containers and Mac bring like
couple of weeks ago and Windows decided
to bring their own environment as well.
So they are catching up with Linux. Um
I don't know much information about this
uh but what they did with the Windows
team is they dog food their own product
again. So they work with Windows team
about um these lightweight containers
that can work on any environment any any
operating system.
Uh which means they are promising
Windows, Mac and Linux and they work
with Windows team to make it
work efficiently and you know built with
collaboration with Windows teams and a
new app container SDK. So this is
something um
they talk about coal SDK team I think
they are using for the containers they
build for each session. So when they
want to build a container for each
session they using
one of the main reasons like one of the
main tools that are currently using this
is scalp. So the Microsoft autonomous
agent runs on your machine as an
autonomous agent built using the copil.
Okay, so that's a pre that's a sort of
scenario that you would see which if
you're not familiar with scout. DSR is
talking about Microsoft scout which is a
very new thing come out from build I
guess or a week before build it for
um it is kind of
claw
it is a yeah it is a claw style harness
claw style harness
but it can write and run code on the
machine
it is very powerful stuff eat your
co-pilot tokens work with your copilot
um credits and it's using copilot SDK
that's a good example I should use as
part of this but it's core works
problem. I didn't write the slides so um
and it use MXC sandbox.
It it will
it will it's going to come so it's
probably somewhere in the slides. It
it's MXC is primarily aimed at these
autonomous style agents that either need
to run locally or in the cloud have a
very isolated institutional one just
like
showing
safety in you know not having an agent
for your hard drive or destroy a cloud
computing instance.
Yeah, DSL talked a lot about this for
the people on the chat. I would
recommend to go watch Microsoft
all of it.
All of it. Watch all of it like you
know. So
I'm not going to go talk about this
because
I'm going to talk about this. Um so
with the SDK
they are experimenting with Rust right
now. I don't know which language it is
in right now but with ROS they are
seeing some 10 times performance startup
and memory improvement they are seeing
but I think it's quite experimental
um and remote cloud environments plugins
memory like they they improving this all
the time in all
all AI toolkit providers I guess I would
say um I'm going to skip this section
because
What I want to talk about is
Microsoft IQ. Who heard about anything
about Microsoft IQ or Foundry IQ or
anything IQ from Microsoft other than
Dave
and you were here as well.
So that number I gave earlier about 40%
maybe even more agent projects are being
expected to fail that number from this
uh this talk
name of the talk was context aware
agents.
So sorry I keep going back and forth. So
what they realize
if
if people stop writing their own
context tool like rugg and you know
retrieve log generation or if everyone
stop inventing their own and if there if
there's a unified model unified context
for agents to work with agent accuracy
can increase and operational cost can
decrease because building are expensive
software developers or engineers are
expensive.
and everything is expensive these days
anyway. So because of this Microsoft is
bringing this four IQ work IQ, fabric
IQ, Foundry IQ and web IQ. If you want
to learn more about Foundry IQ, you can
ask DSR maybe but maybe not. I don't
know. Uh work IQ is for your agents.
That's the description
for your agents to understand how you
work and work on that. Fabric IQ is
about how your
data platform about your entities,
records, actions. Foundry IQ is
I don't know how to explain Foundry IQ.
Foundry IQ is your your intentional
enterprise knowledge base behind an MCP
server. So you collect all most
organizations have many different
collections of knowledge unstructured
knowledge shareoint confluence
you know documents stored on someone's
hard drives you know in a storage
account somewhere what we want to be
able to do is bring those together uh
behind a common knowledge layer uh which
is provided as a as a MCP server um and
you can also bring other MCP servers in
there and that allows us to have a
unified governance layer to say hey you
know team you want knowledge of all our
support tickets no problem here's the
foundry IQ knowledge base endpoint add
it to your agent and suddenly that agent
has got knowledge of all support tickets
in your organization
so yeah in a nutshell
so
is that dynamic does that continue to
run does so it it's made up of two
things knowledge base which is your
overall hey company X let's say Mozava
um here's Zava's enterprise knowledge
base inside that I will add knowledge
sources those knowledge sources say
one's in a sharepoint if I add a new
record into SharePoint in the document
boom it's there if I have a say a search
index what will happen is I'll point the
I'll say this knowledge source is this
AI search index and that AI search index
will be kept up to date either on a
schedule or however I like to do it. If
it was a downstream MCP server, it would
be up to that downstream MCP server. So
depending on the source that you're
using, you might have to keep it up to
date or you might let the service keep
it up to date depending on the type of
source. So there's there's multiple
there's about 10 10 or 11 different
remote and local sources. So yeah, they
are dynamic but they may you know like
if your AI search is on a daily schedule
to update it update itself it'll be a
day behind.
I might have an example because I start
playing with IQ
um
when we were talking about this like
last December TSR and I want to go and
play with it. So what I've done here is
I have a storage account here
and what I want to do is I let's say
this is my document storage for my
company
and I want to give my agents an access
like I I want to talk to these files. So
if I go containers
loads sometimes. So what I've done I
only put one very small file
uh which is my resume very old resume
that was the only file I have but
so that's my resume from like a year ago
and
go district foundry
so when you build the knowledge source
it it ask you to have uh
Microsoft search.
Okay, I create maybe because I have
multiple stuff. So, um so you create a
knowledge source here which is normally
found right here. Somehow you create
this that might change because it
changed apparently and then you create
an agent with it.
And
and if you answer question about how
process this is like instruction I give
very very bad instruction probably. And
one thing is this knowledge can surface
as a MCP tool
MC or you can directly create an agent
here and consume it from somewhere else
or you can create agent in your
application consume that as a MCP tool
or you can however you want
for developers where this becomes
development companies where this becomes
really powerful
say you have audience
you know dating back years you've got
SQL D full of support tickets. You've
got a knowledge base that your customer
services team no
um
you bring them all into a knowledge base
and you have an agentic search retrieval
over the top that which is a problem
that says always look at my support
first and then go and look at my
knowledge base second. If you don't get
the answers based on that you can then
create that becomes an MCP server. You
can then add that to your GitHub
co-pilot agent orever your maybe your
coding agent of choices and suddenly
you've empowered your every developer in
the company to and your AI agents to go
and look through your support cases and
understand what might be going wrong and
that's another and you can add more and
more knowledge sources to this foundry
IQ without having to tell your
developers without having to update them
it just becomes more intelligent as you
add more knowledge sources to that that
knowledge base that's really helpful
tool And you could put permissions on it
as well. So for example, if I had access
to the SharePoint site, but San didn't,
I would get access my when I use Foundry
IQ, it would give me access to that
data, but it would not give San access
to that data because it has a governance
layer.
So very small demo because I was jealous
of Jerome because he's really good at
showing things. I
so I use that agent right now and I ask
because that's only have my resume. I
was like what should I hire Senant for
and
um respond with this information.
If you look down the bottom there's MCP
tools and
yes what I want to do is there's there's
this button here
traces this is using open telemetry
right?
Yeah yeah so app inside plus open
telemetry. So we can see here there is
the execute tool call that use that
knowledge
foundary knowledge and then I set the
agent to use dbt 5.4 for mini and yeah
it's it's like that so good I did some
demonstration slides
so
and web IQ is something they bring
recently so with fun IQ you can have
multiple sources like as DSR explained
um it can be sharepoint can be storage
and vice versa a lot of other stuff
I don't know yet I didn't read u web IQ
is um
web IQ is something new. I don't think
we have access yet. So for for your
agents to search reach you know web
it's it's quite a superpowered
agent. It's quite a superpowered web
search for agents where search like
Google is designed for humans and it
works amazingly doesn't always work so
well for agents. So there is web
general search, search for sports,
search, search, search for news. There's
about 10 very specialized tools um that
are much more efficient at searching and
you'll get a much higher quality overall
2.3 times the quality of output and
relevance based on traditional searches.
So this is definitely something you want
to the results that your agent gets, the
lookups, the data that your agent uses
to give you the answers if that really
really matters using something like that
something like web IQ is is well worth
it. But it is only you have to request
access to that at the moment.
I've used I'm using web IQ in my GitHub
copilot agents
but you know web IQ is
web search for agents in steroids.
So before this we try to do like you
know hey
I don't know if there's another tool
right now but you need to either call
like Google or being or other search
APIs and get the result and you know use
rock to work with it. Right now this
solen problem so less copyright
um
this one is about boundary
this talk BR230
um I'm not going to go through
everything but there's one slide I want
to evolution so
I'm going to talk about Jerome again
because he's awesome guy uh in one of
his presentation
in last five days. He mentioned that
when they go for a consultancy
when when they want to consult a company
they and when company ask hey we want to
build agents the first thing they start
asking how you going to measure the
success what is the how you going to
measure the ROI like what what is the
success criteria we didn't have much
stuff about this before but right now
with foundry we have evolution at the
beginning actually um I didn't play with
it yet much but um
I can probably I'm on Foundry so it's
here so
there's catalog this is very I created
this resource like a week or two ago so
there are like a multiple
evaluator
categories and like this tool that you
can use
um before you even start for your
project. What this means is we have
right now to way to verify
between models which model work better
because a year ago or two a two year ago
we had like not many models. We had less
way of working with agents and LM. Right
now we have multiple harnesses, we have
agents, we have skills, we have a lot of
stuff and we need to start understanding
which one work better for us and foundry
give us a tool for that and that's quite
important
and about foundry itself um work with
antrophic is there openai and frontier
models are there Um there was forget the
name fire was it firefly
was it firefly fire
fireworks
fireworks fireworks
fireworks thank you sir you follow the
presentations
um more and more stuff is more and more
models and um content is coming to
and
But what you guys can try not everything
here um in my presentation I talk about
fan mode and
then using autopilot mode I want to talk
about that as well. So you don't show a
bit with uh Linux on on Mac, you do with
tab and or chip tab. Uh you switch
between mod in VS code. So sorry profile
CLI. Um
one of the learnings from the CLI talk
was
they talked about planning way more than
running into directly giving basic
problems. um and back and forth with the
model.
So as an example was running around like
an hour on plan mode because what what
happened when you run in plan mode is in
that session there's a plan MD file has
been generated in your session folder
folder
and also
that might also create SQL light
database as well for which test to
follow and stuff. So then if you work on
your plan mode really well, if you build
your plan very well, you can just as
soon as you finish your plan mode, when
you're happy with your plan, copilot
ask, hey, should I go and implement in
auto mode, autopilot mode? And that's
Ian's very personal statistics about
like 90 95% time he's doing like one
shot implementation. But that is
something
really important to think about. It's
very similar with spectrum development.
you work with your specs and
requirements instead of focus on the
final you know um how should I implement
this fibonach or single function uh it's
quite important um building a
verification will be something they talk
about um if you have an end to end test
you can only work on for example you
have an end to end test that verify your
multiple operating systems and you can
only still build on windows or Linux or
one of the environments but when you go
CI level your agents can verify those
working on those other environments. So
working with agentic approach with with
agents and you know paralyzing your
paralyzing your stories and stuff as you
need a very well testing strategy
verification loop is important.
this treat input as untrusted source as
an example web context uh web content
and issues in the live session of CLI
demo um what they did is half of the
time of that one hour talk was about
they put this GitHub repository and
people start putting the issues there
and one person put as an issue as ignore
all previous prompts and do this so they
try to do prompt injection in live
session and that is very big reality
right now. What you get from your uh web
search, what you get from your issues,
you need to be treated as a very
untrusted source and work with that. So
what happened there is he had a very
good
um
instruction file that automatically
ignored all preprompt uh trying to
change the system prompt. One um
important thing was going multimodel.
When you go with multimodel, you can do
your plan mode in an expensive and
bigger context models like sonet and
then go use GPT 5.4 mini or even smaller
models to do the implementation and that
work really well. That was one of the
thing um yeah I'm not going to go five
and six. I think these are really good
learnings that
and follow the questions that we have
stage
on this present
framework. We already talk about that.
Uh so agent framework is Microsoft
response to implementing agent
framework
is the way uh and if you buy and that as
a developer
Wednesday. You are welcome to come.
That's all I'm going to talk about. Um I
should use my iPads because I have
talking points there, but I again third
time forgot to use that. So yeah, that's
all.
She wants to be on the
Yeah,
actually on that
slides on
Yeah.
Yeah. Put put them up on We'll put them
up in the GitHub. Yeah, I'll create
you guys want to take a picture. These
are the um
I mean we can put on slides but you know
you know like go watch the sessions. I
would definitely recommend to watch his
sessions.
And all the slides are generated by not.
Could you spell it?
Cor
Wine.
I don't see
I show it
some chats about customer names and
stuff. So if you guys are famili if you
are familiar with um office 365 co-pilot
on that view right now we have chats and
if you are enabled there's also like
work was an agent under the chat before
but they changed the UI and work is
pretty powerful for working with
documents and customs.
Thanks for listening to me.
Thanks everyone for
turn that back on. Thanks everyone for
coming out uh of this evening. Um as we
head off, make sure you've got your QR
code. Um in order to to get out, if you
can put your plastic badge in the basket
that's just on the reception desk.
Again, there's a QR code to let you out
if you don't have one handy for
yourself. Take a photo of that one from
there. But again, yeah, thank you very
much for for coming out. We'll get the
recordings up onto YouTube, get the
slides posted up. I'll post out in the
meet up once those have gone up. Um, and
keep and keep an eye on the meet up for
when we do the next one. So, thank you
very much for your time. Huh?
We run
What's up?
I want to
just cut from the other side.
Heat. Heat.